CATALOG.md, before:

# 🏅 Complete Badge Catalog — BOOMFLOW

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Total-97_Badges-gold.svg" alt="97 Badges"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Categories-11-blue.svg" alt="11 Categories"/>
</p>

> **Complete reference of all badges in the BOOMFLOW system by Sistemas Ursol**

---

## 📖 Table of Contents

- [Tier System](#tier-system)
- [🟢 Onboarding](#-onboarding-10-badges)
- [🔵 Coding](#-coding-21-badges)
- [🟣 DevOps](#-devops-10-badges)
- [🩷 Collaboration](#-collaboration-16-badges)
- [🟡 Leadership](#-leadership-10-badges)
- [📚 Documentation](#-documentation-7-badges)
- [🌱 Growth](#-growth-5-badges)
- [❤️ Milestones](#️-milestones-9-badges)
- [⭐ Special](#-special-1-badge)
- [❤️ Community (Social)](#️-community-social-4-badges)
- [💎 Premium (Patron)](#-premium-patron-4-badges)

---

## Tier System

Each badge has a tier that indicates its difficulty or importance:

| Tier | Icon | Color | Meaning |
|------|------|-------|---------|
| **Bronze** | 🥉 | `#CD7F32` | Initial achievement, first step toward mastery |
| **Silver** | 🥈 | `#C0C0C0` | Consistently demonstrated competence |
| **Gold** | 🥇 | `#FFD700` | Recognized excellence and mastery |

---

## 🟢 Onboarding (10 badges)

*Badges to celebrate your integration into the team*

| Badge | Tier | Meaning | How to earn |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| 👋 **Hello World** | 🥉 | Your first day on the team. Welcome to the Ursol family! | Automatic upon creating your profile |
| ✅ **First Commit** | 🥉 | Your first commit to the repository. The beginning of your mark on the codebase. | Make 1 commit to any repo |
| 🔀 **First PR** | 🥉 | Your first approved Pull Request. You demonstrate you can collaborate with the team. | 1 merged PR |
| 🔍 **First Review** | 🥉 | Your first code review. You begin caring for the team's code quality. | Complete 1 code review |
| 📝 **First Feedback** | 🥉 | Your first constructive feedback to a teammate. Communication is key. | Give feedback in a review |
| ✨ **Profile Complete** | 🥉 | BOOMFLOW profile fully completed with all your information. | Complete all profile fields |
| 📅 **Week One** | 🥉 | One week on the team. You already know the basics. | 7 days since `joinedAt` |
| 📆 **Month One** | 🥈 | One month on the team. You're integrating perfectly. | 30 days since `joinedAt` |
| 🎊 **Year One** | 🥇 | One year on the team. You are a fundamental part of the team. | 365 days since `joinedAt` |
| 🛡️ **Welcome Wagon** | 🥈 | You actively help welcome new members. | Nomination for helping with onboarding |

---

## 🔵 Coding (21 badges)

*Recognition for technical excellence in development*

| Badge | Tier | Meaning | How to earn |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| 🥷 **Code Ninja** | 🥈 | Clean, fast, and efficient code. You move with agility through lines of code. | 50+ clean commits |
| 🐛 **Bug Hunter** | 🥈 | You detect bugs before they reach production. Your critical eye protects the team. | Detect bugs in code review |
| 🗡️ **Bug Slayer** | 🥇 | You don't just find bugs, you eliminate them without mercy. 50+ documented bugs resolved. | 50+ bug issues closed |
| ♻️ **Refactor Master** | 🥈 | You improve legacy code without breaking functionality. The art of continuous improvement. | Refactor complex code |
| 🧮 **Algorithm Ace** | 🥇 | You solve complex problems with optimal algorithms. Your mind thinks in O(n). | Implement optimal algorithms |
| ✨ **Clean Code** | 🥈 | Readable, documented, and maintainable code. A pleasure to read. | Consistently exemplary code |
| 🏗️ **Full Stack Hero** | 🥇 | You master both frontend and backend. No layer can resist you. | Full stack contributions |
| 🔌 **API Artisan** | 🥈 | You design elegant, intuitive, and well-documented APIs. | Design quality APIs |
| 🗄️ **Database Dynamo** | 🥈 | Optimized queries, elegant schemas. The database obeys you. | Optimize queries/schemas |
| 🗃️ **Data Wizard** | 🥇 | Mastery in data handling, migrations, and complex transformations. | Advanced data handling |
| 🛡️ **Security Champion** | 🥇 | You proactively implement security. Hackers fear you. | Implement security measures |
| 🤖 **AI Pioneer** | 🥇 | You lead AI/ML integration in projects. The future is in your hands. | Implement AI solutions |
| ⚡ **Performance Guru** | 🥇 | You optimize down to the last millisecond. Speed is your obsession. | Performance optimizations |
| 🧪 **Test Master** | 🥈 | Exemplary test coverage. If it's not tested, it's not done. | High test coverage |
| 💯 **Commit Century** | 🥈 | 100 commits to the repository. Your contribution is consistent. | 100 commits |
| 🎯 **Commit 500** | 🥇 | 500 commits. You are a pillar of the team's codebase. | 500 commits |
| 🏆 **Commit Thousand** | 🥇 | 1000 commits. A living legend of the repository. | 1000 commits |
| 🔀 **PR Champion** | 🥈 | 50+ merged Pull Requests. Your code is everywhere. | 50 merged PRs |
| 👀 **Review Guru** | 🥈 | 100+ code reviews completed. The guardian of quality. | 100 code reviews |
| 📱 **Mobile Master** | 🥈 | Expert in mobile development. Native or hybrid apps, everything flows. | Expertise in mobile |
| 🎨 **Frontend Wizard** | 🥈 | Mastery in technical UI/UX. Every pixel in its place. | Frontend excellence |

---

## 🟣 DevOps (10 badges)

*Mastery in operations, infrastructure, and automation*

| Badge | Tier | Meaning | How to earn |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| ⚡ **Pipeline Pro** | 🥈 | Fast and reliable CI/CD pipelines. Automation is your language. | Configure efficient pipelines |
| 🐳 **Docker Captain** | 🥈 | Clean and efficient containerization. Your containers sail perfectly. | Master Docker |
| ☸️ **Kubernetes Knight** | 🥇 | Advanced container orchestration. The cluster responds to you. | Master Kubernetes |
| ☁️ **Cloud Deployer** | 🥇 | Cloud deployments with no downtime. Zero-downtime is your standard. | Zero-downtime deployments |
| 🔄 **CI/CD Master** | 🥇 | Full automation of the development cycle. From commit to deploy, everything flows. | Complete automation |
| 🏔️ **Terraform Titan** | 🥇 | Infrastructure as Code at another level. Your infrastructure is versioned. | Master IaC |
| 🚨 **Incident Commander** | 🥇 | Handling critical incidents with calm and efficiency. The captain in the storm. | Lead incident resolution |
| 🚀 **Deploy Master** | 🥈 | 50+ successful deployments. Production knows you well. | 50 successful deployments |
| 📊 **SRE Specialist** | 🥇 | Site Reliability Engineering. Availability is your responsibility. | Expertise in SRE |
| 📈 **Monitoring Maven** | 🥈 | Observability and alerts configured perfectly. Nothing goes unnoticed. | Configure monitoring |

---

## 🩷 Collaboration (16 badges)

*Teamwork, mentorship, and culture*

| Badge | Tier | Meaning | How to earn |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| 🎓 **Mentor** | 🥉 | You guide new teammates. Your patience makes the difference. | Mentor 1+ teammates |
| 🏆 **Mentor Master** | 🥇 | You have guided 20+ colleagues to success. You are a mentorship role model. | Mentor 20+ teammates |
| 🤝 **Team Spirit** | 🥈 | You keep morale high and the team cohesive. The glue of the group. | Contribute to a positive environment |
| 👁️ **Code Reviewer** | 🥈 | Detailed and constructive reviews. Your feedback helps others grow. | Quality reviews |
| 👥 **Pair Programmer** | 🥈 | Effective pair programming. Two minds think better than one. | Active pair programming |
| 🙌 **Team Player** | 🥈 | Exceptional collaborator. Always willing to support wherever needed. | Exceptional collaboration |
| 🤗 **Helping Hand** | 🥈 | Always available to help. Your generosity knows no limits. | Consistently helping others |
| 🏅 **Hackathon Hero** | 🥇 | You stand out in internal or external hackathons. Pressure drives you. | Win/stand out in a hackathon |
| 💼 **Customer Champion** | 🥈 | Focused on customer needs. The user always comes first. | End-user focus |
| 🌉 **Bridge Builder** | 🥈 | You connect teams and departments. You break silos with ease. | Facilitate cross-team communication |
| 🧩 **Problem Solver** | 🥈 | You solve complex problems with creativity. Nothing stops you. | Solve difficult problems |
| 🔥 **Crisis Averted** | 🥇 | You saved a critical production situation. A hero under pressure. | Resolve a production crisis |
| 📢 **Knowledge Sharer** | 🥈 | You actively share knowledge with the team. Your expertise belongs to everyone. | Share knowledge |
| 🎯 **People First** | 🥈 | You prioritize people's well-being. The team before the code. | Prioritize team well-being |
| ☀️ **Positive Vibes** | 🥈 | Your positive energy is contagious to the team. Attitude is everything. | Consistently positive attitude |
| 🌟 **Culture Champion** | 🥇 | Ambassador of the company culture. You live and breathe the values. | Exemplify the culture |

---

## 🟡 Leadership (10 badges)

*Technical leadership, vision, and decision-making*

| Badge | Tier | Meaning | How to earn |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| 👑 **Tech Lead** | 🥇 | You lead technical decisions with strategic vision. The technical captain. | Lead technical decisions |
| 🏛️ **Architect** | 🥇 | You design solid, scalable, and maintainable architecture. You build for the future. | Design architectures |
| 🚀 **Sprint Hero** | 🥈 | Exceptional sprint delivery. You consistently exceed expectations. | Exceptional deliveries |
| 🔮 **Visionary** | 🥇 | Strategic product and technology vision. You see beyond the horizon. | Propose strategic vision |
| 💡 **Innovator** | 🥇 | Transformative ideas that become reality. You change the game. | Implement innovations |
| ⭐ **MVP of Month** | 🥇 | Recognized as the most valuable of the month. Outstanding excellence. | Be voted MVP |
| 🎖️ **Change Agent** | 🥈 | You drive positive changes in processes and culture. The catalyst for change. | Drive improvements |
| 📋 **Project Lead** | 🥇 | You lead projects successfully from start to finish. You deliver results. | Lead projects |
| 🏠 **Remote Champion** | 🥈 | Excellence in remote work. Distance does not limit you. | Excel in remote work |
| 🎤 **Conference Speaker** | 🥇 | You present at technical conferences. Your knowledge transcends the company. | Speak at conferences |

---

## 📚 Documentation (7 badges)

*Documentation, shared knowledge, and open source contributions*

| Badge | Tier | Meaning | How to earn |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| 📖 **Docs Hero** | 🥉 | Clear and useful documentation for the entire team. Your writing guides others. | Document projects |
| 🎬 **Tutorial Creator** | 🥈 | You create useful and well-structured tutorials. You teach with clarity. | Create tutorials |
| 🌐 **Open Source Contributor** | 🥈 | Active contributions to open source projects. You give back to the community. | Contribute to OSS |
| 📝 **Wiki Warrior** | 🥈 | You keep the wiki updated and organized. The guardian of knowledge. | Maintain wikis |
| 📄 **README Ranger** | 🥈 | Exemplary READMEs that anyone can understand. The perfect entry point. | Quality READMEs |
| 🔌 **API Designer** | 🥈 | Well-designed, documented, and versioned APIs. The perfect interface. | Design documented APIs |
| 🌍 **Open Source** | 🥈 | You maintain or significantly contribute to open source projects. | Significant OSS contributions |

---

## 🌱 Growth (5 badges)

*Professional growth and continuous learning*

| Badge | Tier | Meaning | How to earn |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| 🚀 **Fast Learner** | 🥈 | You learn new technologies quickly. Your learning curve is impressive. | Master new technologies quickly |
| 📚 **Lifelong Learner** | 🥈 | Demonstrated continuous learning. You are always studying something new. | Ongoing courses/certifications |
| 🛠️ **Skill Builder** | 🥈 | You actively develop new technical and soft skills. | Develop new skills |
| 🌿 **Eco Coder** | 🥈 | Efficient and sustainable code. You think about the impact of your decisions. | Efficient/sustainable code |
| ♿ **Accessibility Advocate** | 🥈 | You advocate for accessibility in all products. Technology for everyone. | Implement accessibility |

---

## ❤️ Milestones (9 badges)

*Cumulative milestones and special achievements*

| Badge | Tier | Meaning | How to earn |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| 🎁 **Kudo Starter** | 🥉 | You received your first 10 kudos from teammates. The recognition begins. | 10 kudos received |
| 💝 **Kudo Collector** | 🥈 | 50 kudos received. Your teammates genuinely value you. | 50 kudos received |
| 👑 **Kudo Legend** | 🥇 | 100 kudos received. You are a legend of peer recognition. | 100 kudos received |
| 🎀 **Kudo Giver** | 🥈 | You give kudos generously. You recognize the work of others. | Give many kudos |
| 🏅 **Badge Hunter** | 🥈 | You actively collect badges. 10 badges earned. | 10 badges |
| 🎖️ **Badge Legend** | 🥇 | 20 badges earned. Your collection is impressive. | 20 badges |
| 🏆 **Badge Master** | 🥇 | 30+ badges. Master of recognition. | 30 badges |
| 🔥 **Streak Keeper** | 🥈 | 14 days of continuous activity. Consistency is your trademark. | 14-day streak |
| ⚡ **Streak Master** | 🥇 | 30 days of continuous activity. Unstoppable. | 30-day streak |

---

## ⭐ Special (1 badge)

*Unique and exceptional recognitions*

| Badge | Tier | Meaning | How to earn |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| 🌟 **All Star** | 🥇 | You have earned at least one badge from every category. Truly well-rounded. | 1 badge per category |

---

## ❤️ Community (Social) (4 badges)

*Badges of human connection and bonding between teammates*

> 💡 **These badges are not "earned", they are "transferred"**. Each contributor has 2 Resonance badges per year to gift to teammates.

| Badge | Tier | Meaning | How to earn |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| 🤝 **Resonance** | 🥉 | A colleague recognizes you for your support and camaraderie. Human value matters. | Received from a teammate (MANUAL_PEER_AWARD) |
| 💫 **Strong Bond** | 🥈 | You have received 3+ Resonance badges. Your connection with the team is evident. | 3+ Resonance badges received |
| 🌟 **Team Soul** | 🥇 | You have received 10+ Resonance badges. You are the heart of the group. | 10+ Resonance badges received |
| 💝 **Generous Spirit** | 🥈 | You give sincere recognition. You have consistently awarded Resonance badges. | Award Resonance badges (nomination) |

---

## 💎 Premium (Patron) (4 badges)

*Badges of investment and commitment to the Ursol community*

> ⚠️ **These badges have a special aesthetic** (shiny border) to distinguish them from technical merit badges. They never compete with skill badges.

| Badge | Tier | Meaning | How to earn |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| 🌱 **Patron Seed** | 🥉 | A seed of support. Your small investment ($1-5) nurtures the community. | Investment $1-5 |
| 🌿 **Patron Growth** | 🥈 | Sustained growth. Your investment ($10-20) powers the ecosystem. Benefit: 1 free afternoon/month. | Investment $10-20 |
| 🌸 **Patron Bloom** | 🥇 | Your support has bloomed. Significant investment ($50+) with premium benefits. | Investment $50+ |
| 🌳 **Eco Champion** | 🥇 | Impact champion. Your donation went to a social cause. Impact certificate included. | Verified social donation |

---

## 📊 Category Summary

| Category | Badges | Bronze | Silver | Gold |
|----------|--------|--------|--------|------|
| 🟢 Onboarding | 10 | 6 | 2 | 2 |
| 🔵 Coding | 21 | 0 | 13 | 8 |
| 🟣 DevOps | 10 | 0 | 4 | 6 |
| 🩷 Collaboration | 16 | 1 | 12 | 3 |
| 🟡 Leadership | 10 | 0 | 3 | 7 |
| 📚 Documentation | 7 | 1 | 6 | 0 |
| 🌱 Growth | 5 | 0 | 5 | 0 |
| ❤️ Milestones | 9 | 1 | 4 | 4 |
| ⭐ Special | 1 | 0 | 0 | 1 |
| ❤️ **Community** | **4** | **1** | **2** | **1** |
| 💎 **Premium** | **4** | **1** | **1** | **2** |
| **Total** | **97** | **11** | **52** | **34** |

---

## 🎯 Automatic vs Manual Badges

### Automatic (verified daily)

These badges are awarded automatically based on GitHub metrics:

- `hello-world`, `first-commit`, `first-pr`, `first-review`
- `week-one`, `month-one`, `year-one`
- `code-ninja` (50 commits), `commit-century` (100), `commit-500`, `commit-thousand`
- `pr-champion` (50 PRs), `review-guru` (100 reviews)
- `kudo-starter`, `kudo-collector`, `kudo-legend`
- `badge-hunter`, `badge-legend`, `badge-master`
- `streak-keeper`, `streak-master`
- `all-star`
- `strong-bond` (3+ peer awards), `team-soul` (10+ peer awards)

### Manual (nomination required)

These badges require nomination by an administrator:

- All **Leadership** badges: tech-lead, architect, visionary, innovator...
- Most **Advanced Coding** badges: algorithm-ace, security-champion, ai-pioneer...
- All **Advanced DevOps** badges: kubernetes-knight, incident-commander, sre-specialist...
- Most **Collaboration** badges: mentor, crisis-averted, hackathon-hero...

### Peer-to-Peer (MANUAL_PEER_AWARD)

These badges are awarded by teammates:

- `resonance`: Awarded directly by a colleague (max 2/year per person)

### Investment (INVESTMENT)

These badges are earned through financial support:

- `patron-seed`, `patron-growth`, `patron-bloom`, `eco-champion`

---

<p align="center">
  <strong>🌸 BOOMFLOW — Badge Catalog</strong><br/>
  <sub>97 ways to recognize excellence — Sistemas Ursol</sub>
</p>

Commit message:

refactor: remove commercial plans, reframe as internal tool for Sistemas Ursol
Boomflow is an internal recognition tool, not a commercial product.
Selling badges as a service carries reputational risk for any company —
if badges can be purchased, they lose credibility as verifiable achievements.

Changes across 13 files:
- README: replace 'Plans for Companies' with 'Future Plans' disclaimer
- BUSINESS_MODEL: add prominent 'Exploratory / Not Active' header, keep file
- WHY_BOOMFLOW: remove specific pricing (/mo), reframe as internal ROI
- ROADMAP: replace monetization table with exploratory feature list
- ECONOMY: reframe Investment Badges as future concept with integrity warning
- CATALOG: mark Premium (Patron) badges as future concept
- SKINS: make NEON available to all, mark isPremium as future flag
- DOCS: update skin access table, premium badge note
- BOOMFLOWapp.txt: reframe business model as future considerations
- LICENSE: add explicit prohibition on selling badge access
- backend schema: comment out PRO/SCALE/ENTERPRISE from Plan enum
- backend seed: change demo org from PRO to INTERNAL
- select-skin-pack: disable premium ACL enforcement, log notice instead

CATALOG.md, after:

# 🏅 Complete Badge Catalog — BOOMFLOW

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Total-97_Badges-gold.svg" alt="97 Badges"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Categories-11-blue.svg" alt="11 Categories"/>
</p>

> **Complete reference of all badges in the BOOMFLOW system by Sistemas Ursol**

---

## 📖 Table of Contents

- [Tier System](#tier-system)
- [🟢 Onboarding](#-onboarding-10-badges)
- [🔵 Coding](#-coding-21-badges)
- [🟣 DevOps](#-devops-10-badges)
- [🩷 Collaboration](#-collaboration-16-badges)
- [🟡 Leadership](#-leadership-10-badges)
- [📚 Documentation](#-documentation-7-badges)
- [🌱 Growth](#-growth-5-badges)
- [❤️ Milestones](#️-milestones-9-badges)
- [⭐ Special](#-special-1-badge)
- [❤️ Community (Social)](#️-community-social-4-badges)
- [💎 Premium (Patron)](#-premium-patron-4-badges)

---

## Tier System

Each badge has a tier that indicates its difficulty or importance:

| Tier | Icon | Color | Meaning |
|------|------|-------|---------|
| **Bronze** | 🥉 | `#CD7F32` | Initial achievement, first step toward mastery |
| **Silver** | 🥈 | `#C0C0C0` | Consistently demonstrated competence |
| **Gold** | 🥇 | `#FFD700` | Recognized excellence and mastery |

---

## 🟢 Onboarding (10 badges)

*Badges to celebrate your integration into the team*

| Badge | Tier | Meaning | How to earn |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| 👋 **Hello World** | 🥉 | Your first day on the team. Welcome to the Ursol family! | Automatic upon creating your profile |
| ✅ **First Commit** | 🥉 | Your first commit to the repository. The beginning of your mark on the codebase. | Make 1 commit to any repo |
| 🔀 **First PR** | 🥉 | Your first approved Pull Request. You demonstrate you can collaborate with the team. | 1 merged PR |
| 🔍 **First Review** | 🥉 | Your first code review. You begin caring for the team's code quality. | Complete 1 code review |
| 📝 **First Feedback** | 🥉 | Your first constructive feedback to a teammate. Communication is key. | Give feedback in a review |
| ✨ **Profile Complete** | 🥉 | BOOMFLOW profile fully completed with all your information. | Complete all profile fields |
| 📅 **Week One** | 🥉 | One week on the team. You already know the basics. | 7 days since `joinedAt` |
| 📆 **Month One** | 🥈 | One month on the team. You're integrating perfectly. | 30 days since `joinedAt` |
| 🎊 **Year One** | 🥇 | One year on the team. You are a fundamental part of the team. | 365 days since `joinedAt` |
| 🛡️ **Welcome Wagon** | 🥈 | You actively help welcome new members. | Nomination for helping with onboarding |

---

## 🔵 Coding (21 badges)

*Recognition for technical excellence in development*

| Badge | Tier | Meaning | How to earn |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| 🥷 **Code Ninja** | 🥈 | Clean, fast, and efficient code. You move with agility through lines of code. | 50+ clean commits |
| 🐛 **Bug Hunter** | 🥈 | You detect bugs before they reach production. Your critical eye protects the team. | Detect bugs in code review |
| 🗡️ **Bug Slayer** | 🥇 | You don't just find bugs, you eliminate them without mercy. 50+ documented bugs resolved. | 50+ bug issues closed |
| ♻️ **Refactor Master** | 🥈 | You improve legacy code without breaking functionality. The art of continuous improvement. | Refactor complex code |
| 🧮 **Algorithm Ace** | 🥇 | You solve complex problems with optimal algorithms. Your mind thinks in O(n). | Implement optimal algorithms |
| ✨ **Clean Code** | 🥈 | Readable, documented, and maintainable code. A pleasure to read. | Consistently exemplary code |
| 🏗️ **Full Stack Hero** | 🥇 | You master both frontend and backend. No layer can resist you. | Full stack contributions |
| 🔌 **API Artisan** | 🥈 | You design elegant, intuitive, and well-documented APIs. | Design quality APIs |
| 🗄️ **Database Dynamo** | 🥈 | Optimized queries, elegant schemas. The database obeys you. | Optimize queries/schemas |
| 🗃️ **Data Wizard** | 🥇 | Mastery in data handling, migrations, and complex transformations. | Advanced data handling |
| 🛡️ **Security Champion** | 🥇 | You proactively implement security. Hackers fear you. | Implement security measures |
| 🤖 **AI Pioneer** | 🥇 | You lead AI/ML integration in projects. The future is in your hands. | Implement AI solutions |
| ⚡ **Performance Guru** | 🥇 | You optimize down to the last millisecond. Speed is your obsession. | Performance optimizations |
| 🧪 **Test Master** | 🥈 | Exemplary test coverage. If it's not tested, it's not done. | High test coverage |
| 💯 **Commit Century** | 🥈 | 100 commits to the repository. Your contribution is consistent. | 100 commits |
| 🎯 **Commit 500** | 🥇 | 500 commits. You are a pillar of the team's codebase. | 500 commits |
| 🏆 **Commit Thousand** | 🥇 | 1000 commits. A living legend of the repository. | 1000 commits |
| 🔀 **PR Champion** | 🥈 | 50+ merged Pull Requests. Your code is everywhere. | 50 merged PRs |
| 👀 **Review Guru** | 🥈 | 100+ code reviews completed. The guardian of quality. | 100 code reviews |
| 📱 **Mobile Master** | 🥈 | Expert in mobile development. Native or hybrid apps, everything flows. | Expertise in mobile |
| 🎨 **Frontend Wizard** | 🥈 | Mastery in technical UI/UX. Every pixel in its place. | Frontend excellence |

---

## 🟣 DevOps (10 badges)

*Mastery in operations, infrastructure, and automation*

| Badge | Tier | Meaning | How to earn |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| ⚡ **Pipeline Pro** | 🥈 | Fast and reliable CI/CD pipelines. Automation is your language. | Configure efficient pipelines |
| 🐳 **Docker Captain** | 🥈 | Clean and efficient containerization. Your containers sail perfectly. | Master Docker |
| ☸️ **Kubernetes Knight** | 🥇 | Advanced container orchestration. The cluster responds to you. | Master Kubernetes |
| ☁️ **Cloud Deployer** | 🥇 | Cloud deployments with no downtime. Zero-downtime is your standard. | Zero-downtime deployments |
| 🔄 **CI/CD Master** | 🥇 | Full automation of the development cycle. From commit to deploy, everything flows. | Complete automation |
| 🏔️ **Terraform Titan** | 🥇 | Infrastructure as Code at another level. Your infrastructure is versioned. | Master IaC |
| 🚨 **Incident Commander** | 🥇 | Handling critical incidents with calm and efficiency. The captain in the storm. | Lead incident resolution |
| 🚀 **Deploy Master** | 🥈 | 50+ successful deployments. Production knows you well. | 50 successful deployments |
| 📊 **SRE Specialist** | 🥇 | Site Reliability Engineering. Availability is your responsibility. | Expertise in SRE |
| 📈 **Monitoring Maven** | 🥈 | Observability and alerts configured perfectly. Nothing goes unnoticed. | Configure monitoring |

---

## 🩷 Collaboration (16 badges)

*Teamwork, mentorship, and culture*

| Badge | Tier | Meaning | How to earn |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| 🎓 **Mentor** | 🥉 | You guide new teammates. Your patience makes the difference. | Mentor 1+ teammates |
| 🏆 **Mentor Master** | 🥇 | You have guided 20+ colleagues to success. You are a mentorship role model. | Mentor 20+ teammates |
| 🤝 **Team Spirit** | 🥈 | You keep morale high and the team cohesive. The glue of the group. | Contribute to a positive environment |
| 👁️ **Code Reviewer** | 🥈 | Detailed and constructive reviews. Your feedback helps others grow. | Quality reviews |
| 👥 **Pair Programmer** | 🥈 | Effective pair programming. Two minds think better than one. | Active pair programming |
| 🙌 **Team Player** | 🥈 | Exceptional collaborator. Always willing to support wherever needed. | Exceptional collaboration |
| 🤗 **Helping Hand** | 🥈 | Always available to help. Your generosity knows no limits. | Consistently helping others |
| 🏅 **Hackathon Hero** | 🥇 | You stand out in internal or external hackathons. Pressure drives you. | Win/stand out in a hackathon |
| 💼 **Customer Champion** | 🥈 | Focused on customer needs. The user always comes first. | End-user focus |
| 🌉 **Bridge Builder** | 🥈 | You connect teams and departments. You break silos with ease. | Facilitate cross-team communication |
| 🧩 **Problem Solver** | 🥈 | You solve complex problems with creativity. Nothing stops you. | Solve difficult problems |
| 🔥 **Crisis Averted** | 🥇 | You saved a critical production situation. A hero under pressure. | Resolve a production crisis |
| 📢 **Knowledge Sharer** | 🥈 | You actively share knowledge with the team. Your expertise belongs to everyone. | Share knowledge |
| 🎯 **People First** | 🥈 | You prioritize people's well-being. The team before the code. | Prioritize team well-being |
| ☀️ **Positive Vibes** | 🥈 | Your positive energy is contagious to the team. Attitude is everything. | Consistently positive attitude |
| 🌟 **Culture Champion** | 🥇 | Ambassador of the company culture. You live and breathe the values. | Exemplify the culture |

---

## 🟡 Leadership (10 badges)

*Technical leadership, vision, and decision-making*

| Badge | Tier | Meaning | How to earn |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| 👑 **Tech Lead** | 🥇 | You lead technical decisions with strategic vision. The technical captain. | Lead technical decisions |
| 🏛️ **Architect** | 🥇 | You design solid, scalable, and maintainable architecture. You build for the future. | Design architectures |
| 🚀 **Sprint Hero** | 🥈 | Exceptional sprint delivery. You consistently exceed expectations. | Exceptional deliveries |
| 🔮 **Visionary** | 🥇 | Strategic product and technology vision. You see beyond the horizon. | Propose strategic vision |
| 💡 **Innovator** | 🥇 | Transformative ideas that become reality. You change the game. | Implement innovations |
| ⭐ **MVP of Month** | 🥇 | Recognized as the most valuable of the month. Outstanding excellence. | Be voted MVP |
| 🎖️ **Change Agent** | 🥈 | You drive positive changes in processes and culture. The catalyst for change. | Drive improvements |
| 📋 **Project Lead** | 🥇 | You lead projects successfully from start to finish. You deliver results. | Lead projects |
| 🏠 **Remote Champion** | 🥈 | Excellence in remote work. Distance does not limit you. | Excel in remote work |
| 🎤 **Conference Speaker** | 🥇 | You present at technical conferences. Your knowledge transcends the company. | Speak at conferences |

---

## 📚 Documentation (7 badges)

*Documentation, shared knowledge, and open source contributions*

| Badge | Tier | Meaning | How to earn |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| 📖 **Docs Hero** | 🥉 | Clear and useful documentation for the entire team. Your writing guides others. | Document projects |
| 🎬 **Tutorial Creator** | 🥈 | You create useful and well-structured tutorials. You teach with clarity. | Create tutorials |
| 🌐 **Open Source Contributor** | 🥈 | Active contributions to open source projects. You give back to the community. | Contribute to OSS |
| 📝 **Wiki Warrior** | 🥈 | You keep the wiki updated and organized. The guardian of knowledge. | Maintain wikis |
| 📄 **README Ranger** | 🥈 | Exemplary READMEs that anyone can understand. The perfect entry point. | Quality READMEs |
| 🔌 **API Designer** | 🥈 | Well-designed, documented, and versioned APIs. The perfect interface. | Design documented APIs |
| 🌍 **Open Source** | 🥈 | You maintain or significantly contribute to open source projects. | Significant OSS contributions |

---

## 🌱 Growth (5 badges)

*Professional growth and continuous learning*

| Badge | Tier | Meaning | How to earn |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| 🚀 **Fast Learner** | 🥈 | You learn new technologies quickly. Your learning curve is impressive. | Master new technologies quickly |
| 📚 **Lifelong Learner** | 🥈 | Demonstrated continuous learning. You are always studying something new. | Ongoing courses/certifications |
| 🛠️ **Skill Builder** | 🥈 | You actively develop new technical and soft skills. | Develop new skills |
| 🌿 **Eco Coder** | 🥈 | Efficient and sustainable code. You think about the impact of your decisions. | Efficient/sustainable code |
| ♿ **Accessibility Advocate** | 🥈 | You advocate for accessibility in all products. Technology for everyone. | Implement accessibility |

---

## ❤️ Milestones (9 badges)

*Cumulative milestones and special achievements*

| Badge | Tier | Meaning | How to earn |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| 🎁 **Kudo Starter** | 🥉 | You received your first 10 kudos from teammates. The recognition begins. | 10 kudos received |
| 💝 **Kudo Collector** | 🥈 | 50 kudos received. Your teammates genuinely value you. | 50 kudos received |
| 👑 **Kudo Legend** | 🥇 | 100 kudos received. You are a legend of peer recognition. | 100 kudos received |
| 🎀 **Kudo Giver** | 🥈 | You give kudos generously. You recognize the work of others. | Give many kudos |
| 🏅 **Badge Hunter** | 🥈 | You actively collect badges. 10 badges earned. | 10 badges |
| 🎖️ **Badge Legend** | 🥇 | 20 badges earned. Your collection is impressive. | 20 badges |
| 🏆 **Badge Master** | 🥇 | 30+ badges. Master of recognition. | 30 badges |
| 🔥 **Streak Keeper** | 🥈 | 14 days of continuous activity. Consistency is your trademark. | 14-day streak |
| ⚡ **Streak Master** | 🥇 | 30 days of continuous activity. Unstoppable. | 30-day streak |

---

## ⭐ Special (1 badge)

*Unique and exceptional recognitions*

| Badge | Tier | Meaning | How to earn |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| 🌟 **All Star** | 🥇 | You have earned at least one badge from every category. Truly well-rounded. | 1 badge per category |

---

## ❤️ Community (Social) (4 badges)

*Badges of human connection and bonding between teammates*

> 💡 **These badges are not "earned", they are "transferred"**. Each contributor has 2 Resonance badges per year to gift to teammates.

| Badge | Tier | Meaning | How to earn |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| 🤝 **Resonance** | 🥉 | A colleague recognizes you for your support and camaraderie. Human value matters. | Received from a teammate (MANUAL_PEER_AWARD) |
| 💫 **Strong Bond** | 🥈 | You have received 3+ Resonance badges. Your connection with the team is evident. | 3+ Resonance badges received |
| 🌟 **Team Soul** | 🥇 | You have received 10+ Resonance badges. You are the heart of the group. | 10+ Resonance badges received |
| 💝 **Generous Spirit** | 🥈 | You give sincere recognition. You have consistently awarded Resonance badges. | Award Resonance badges (nomination) |

---

## 💎 Premium (Patron) — Future Concept (4 badges)\n\n*Badges of investment and commitment to the Ursol community*\n\n> ⚠️ **These badges are not currently active.** They represent a future concept for recognizing community investment. The design intentionally uses a special aesthetic (shiny border) to distinguish them from technical merit badges, so they never compete with skill badges. See [ECONOMY.md](ECONOMY.md) for the full design discussion.

| Badge | Tier | Meaning | How to earn |
|-------|------|---------|-------------|
| 🌱 **Patron Seed** | 🥉 | A seed of support. Your small investment ($1-5) nurtures the community. | Investment $1-5 |
| 🌿 **Patron Growth** | 🥈 | Sustained growth. Your investment ($10-20) powers the ecosystem. Benefit: 1 free afternoon/month. | Investment $10-20 |
| 🌸 **Patron Bloom** | 🥇 | Your support has bloomed. Significant investment ($50+) with premium benefits. | Investment $50+ |
| 🌳 **Eco Champion** | 🥇 | Impact champion. Your donation went to a social cause. Impact certificate included. | Verified social donation |

---

## 📊 Category Summary

| Category | Badges | Bronze | Silver | Gold |
|----------|--------|--------|--------|------|
| 🟢 Onboarding | 10 | 6 | 2 | 2 |
| 🔵 Coding | 21 | 0 | 13 | 8 |
| 🟣 DevOps | 10 | 0 | 4 | 6 |
| 🩷 Collaboration | 16 | 1 | 12 | 3 |
| 🟡 Leadership | 10 | 0 | 3 | 7 |
| 📚 Documentation | 7 | 1 | 6 | 0 |
| 🌱 Growth | 5 | 0 | 5 | 0 |
| ❤️ Milestones | 9 | 1 | 4 | 4 |
| ⭐ Special | 1 | 0 | 0 | 1 |
| ❤️ **Community** | **4** | **1** | **2** | **1** |
| 💎 **Premium** | **4** | **1** | **1** | **2** |
| **Total** | **97** | **11** | **52** | **34** |

---

## 🎯 Automatic vs Manual Badges

### Automatic (verified daily)

These badges are awarded automatically based on GitHub metrics:

- `hello-world`, `first-commit`, `first-pr`, `first-review`
- `week-one`, `month-one`, `year-one`
- `code-ninja` (50 commits), `commit-century` (100), `commit-500`, `commit-thousand`
- `pr-champion` (50 PRs), `review-guru` (100 reviews)
- `kudo-starter`, `kudo-collector`, `kudo-legend`
- `badge-hunter`, `badge-legend`, `badge-master`
- `streak-keeper`, `streak-master`
- `all-star`
- `strong-bond` (3+ peer awards), `team-soul` (10+ peer awards)

### Manual (nomination required)

These badges require nomination by an administrator:

- All **Leadership** badges: tech-lead, architect, visionary, innovator...
- Most **Advanced Coding** badges: algorithm-ace, security-champion, ai-pioneer...
- All **Advanced DevOps** badges: kubernetes-knight, incident-commander, sre-specialist...
- Most **Collaboration** badges: mentor, crisis-averted, hackathon-hero...

### Peer-to-Peer (MANUAL_PEER_AWARD)

These badges are awarded by teammates:

- `resonance`: Awarded directly by a colleague (max 2/year per person)

### Investment (INVESTMENT)

These badges are earned through financial support:

- `patron-seed`, `patron-growth`, `patron-bloom`, `eco-champion`

---

<p align="center">
  <strong>🌸 BOOMFLOW — Badge Catalog</strong><br/>
  <sub>97 ways to recognize excellence — Sistemas Ursol</sub>
</p>
