ECONOMY.md, before:

# 💎 BOOMFLOW — Recognition Economy

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/🔒_Exclusive_Use-Sistemas_Ursol-8B5CF6.svg" alt="Exclusive"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-1.0-gold.svg" alt="Version"/>
</p>

> **"At Ursol, value is not only generated through commits — it is generated through connections and mutual support. These badges represent an investment in our community."**

---

## 📖 Table of Contents

1. [System Philosophy](#system-philosophy)
2. [Bond Badges (Peer-to-Peer)](#-bond-badges-peer-to-peer)
3. [Investment Badges (Premium/Patron)](#-investment-badges-premiumpatron)
4. [Benefits by Category](#benefits-by-category)
5. [Protection against "Pay-to-Win"](#-protection-against-pay-to-win)
6. [Technical Implementation](#technical-implementation)

---

## System Philosophy

BOOMFLOW recognizes that talent goes beyond code. An exceptional team is built on **three pillars**:

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                     DIMENSIONS OF VALUE                         │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                                 │
│   ⚙️ TECHNICAL         ❤️ SOCIAL            💎 COMMITMENT       │
│   ──────────          ────────             ───────────          │
│   • Code              • Bonds              • Investment         │
│   • DevOps            • Mentorship         • Sponsorship        │
│   • Architecture      • Culture            • Sustainability     │
│                                                                 │
│   Technical           Human                Community            │
│   merit badges        connection badges    support badges       │
│                                                                 │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## ❤️ Bond Badges (Peer-to-Peer)

### The Concept: "Resonance"

In corporate environments, we prefer to call them **Resonance** or **Bond** badges. These are not badges you "earn" through metrics — they are badges you **transfer** to a colleague.

### Mechanics

```yaml
# Resonance System Rules
allocation:
  badges_per_user_per_year: 2
  type: "camaraderie"
  transferable: true
  
restrictions:
  - no_self_award: true
  - no_reciprocal_immediate: true  # Cannot award someone who awarded you within 30 days
  - requires_message: true          # Must include a reason
```

### Why Does It Work?

| Aspect | Automatic Badge | Bond Badge |
|--------|----------------|------------|
| Origin | Algorithm | Colleague |
| Value | Objective | Emotional |
| Message | "You completed X commits" | "Thanks for sticking with me during Friday's deployment" |
| Impact | Recognition | Human connection |

### Available Badges

| Badge | Description | Trigger |
|-------|-------------|---------|
| 🤝 **Resonance** | A colleague recognizes you for your support | `MANUAL_PEER_AWARD` |
| 💫 **Strong Bond** | Received 3+ Resonance badges | Automatic |
| 🌟 **Team Soul** | Received 10+ Resonance badges | Automatic |

---

## 💎 Investment Badges (Premium/Patron)

### The Concept: Tangible Commitment

When a member invests (even symbolically) in the BOOMFLOW ecosystem, they are making a **public commitment** to the Ursol community.

### Meaningful Benefits

```yaml
# Investment Tier Benefits
patron_tiers:
  - tier: "seed"        # $1-5
    benefits:
      - badge: "patron-seed"
      - recognition_wall: true
      
  - tier: "growth"      # $10-20
    benefits:
      - badge: "patron-growth" 
      - time_off: "1 free afternoon per month"
      - course_access: "1 Udemy/Coursera course"
      
  - tier: "bloom"       # $50+
    benefits:
      - badge: "patron-bloom"
      - project_choice: "Priority in stack selection"
      - impact_certificate: "Donation to a social cause"
```

### Social Impact (Optional)

The funds raised can be allocated to:

| Destination | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| 🌳 **Reforestation** | Plant trees with the fund |
| 💻 **Education** | Sponsor programming students |
| 🏠 **Community** | Support open source projects |

The badge becomes a **receipt** that "Ursol and I helped."

### Available Badges

| Badge | Investment | Main Benefit |
|-------|-----------|--------------|
| 🌱 **Patron Seed** | $1-5 | Public recognition |
| 🌿 **Patron Growth** | $10-20 | Disconnect time |
| 🌸 **Patron Bloom** | $50+ | Project choice |
| 🌳 **Eco Champion** | Social donation | Impact certificate |

---

## Benefits by Category

### Benefits Matrix

| Category | Badge Type | Tangible Benefit |
|----------|-----------|-----------------|
| 🔵 Coding | Technical merit | Professional recognition |
| 🟣 DevOps | Technical merit | Professional recognition |
| ❤️ Community | Social bond | Human connection |
| 💎 Premium | Investment | Real benefits |

### Disconnect Time

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                  🎫 DISCONNECT PASS                              │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                                 │
│   This pass grants 1 day off (24 hours) per month              │
│                                                                 │
│   Valid for: Growth and Bloom Patrons                          │
│   Usage: Any Friday of the month                               │
│   Requirement: 48-hour advance notice                          │
│                                                                 │
│   "Rest is part of productivity."                              │
│                                                                 │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## ⚠️ Protection against "Pay-to-Win"

### The Risk

The main danger of monetizing badges is that **technical merit** badges may be perceived as less valuable than "purchased" ones.

### Solution: Visual and Semantic Separation

```yaml
badge_visual_distinction:
  merit_badges:         # Coding, DevOps, Leadership
    border: "standard"
    category_label: "MERIT"
    
  community_badges:     # Bond, Resonance
    border: "heart_shape"
    category_label: "SOCIAL"
    
  patron_badges:        # Investment
    border: "diamond_sparkle"
    category_label: "PATRON"
    color_scheme: "purple_gradient"
```

### Design Principles

1. **Differentiated Aesthetics**: Investment badges have a special frame (diamond-like shiny border)
2. **Visible Category**: "PATRON" or "SOCIAL" is always shown to distinguish them from technical merit
3. **Non-Competing**: Investment badges **never** appear in the technical skills leaderboard
4. **Full Transparency**: The profile clearly shows the origin of each badge

### What Money Can NOT Buy

| ❌ Never Purchasable | ✅ Obtainable through Investment |
|---------------------|--------------------------------|
| Code Ninja | Patron Seed |
| Bug Slayer | Patron Growth |
| Algorithm Ace | Patron Bloom |
| Tech Lead | Eco Champion |
| Any merit badge | Premium category badges |

---

## Technical Implementation

### New Categories in the Schema

```prisma
enum BadgeCategory {
  // ... existing categories
  COMMUNITY    // ❤️ Social/bond badges
  PREMIUM      // 💎 Investment/patron badges
}
```

### New Triggers

```prisma
enum TriggerType {
  // ... existing triggers
  MANUAL_PEER_AWARD    // Awarded by a colleague (Resonance)
  INVESTMENT           // Awarded through investment/donation
}
```

### API Endpoints

```http
# Award a Resonance badge to a colleague
POST /api/badges/peer-award
{
  "toUserId": "user123",
  "message": "Thanks for your support during the sprint"
}

# Process investment and award a Patron badge
POST /api/badges/patron
{
  "tier": "growth",
  "paymentId": "stripe_123",
  "impactChoice": "reforestation"  // optional
}
```

### Validations

```typescript
// peer-award: maximum 2 per year per user
const peerAwardsThisYear = await getPeerAwardsCount(fromUserId, currentYear)
if (peerAwardsThisYear >= 2) {
  throw new Error('You have used all your Resonance badges for this year')
}

// No self-awarding
if (fromUserId === toUserId) {
  throw new Error('You cannot award a badge to yourself')
}
```

---

## 📊 Category Summary

| Category | Emoji | Type | Origin |
|----------|-------|------|--------|
| 🟢 Onboarding | 🟢 | Merit | Automatic |
| 🔵 Coding | 🔵 | Merit | Automatic/Manual |
| 🟣 DevOps | 🟣 | Merit | Automatic/Manual |
| 🩷 Collaboration | 🩷 | Merit | Manual |
| 🟡 Leadership | 🟡 | Merit | Manual |
| 📚 Documentation | 📚 | Merit | Manual |
| 🌱 Growth | 🌱 | Merit | Manual |
| ❤️ Milestones | ❤️ | Cumulative | Automatic |
| ⭐ Special | ⭐ | Special | Automatic |
| ❤️ **Community** | ❤️ | **Social** | **Peer-to-Peer** |
| 💎 **Premium** | 💎 | **Investment** | **Donation** |

---

<p align="center">
  <strong>🌸 BOOMFLOW Economy — Multidimensional Value</strong><br/>
  <sub>Technical merit is only one dimension of talent — Sistemas Ursol</sub>
</p>

Commit message:

refactor: remove commercial plans, reframe as internal tool for Sistemas Ursol
Boomflow is an internal recognition tool, not a commercial product.
Selling badges as a service carries reputational risk for any company —
if badges can be purchased, they lose credibility as verifiable achievements.

Changes across 13 files:
- README: replace 'Plans for Companies' with 'Future Plans' disclaimer
- BUSINESS_MODEL: add prominent 'Exploratory / Not Active' header, keep file
- WHY_BOOMFLOW: remove specific pricing (/mo), reframe as internal ROI
- ROADMAP: replace monetization table with exploratory feature list
- ECONOMY: reframe Investment Badges as future concept with integrity warning
- CATALOG: mark Premium (Patron) badges as future concept
- SKINS: make NEON available to all, mark isPremium as future flag
- DOCS: update skin access table, premium badge note
- BOOMFLOWapp.txt: reframe business model as future considerations
- LICENSE: add explicit prohibition on selling badge access
- backend schema: comment out PRO/SCALE/ENTERPRISE from Plan enum
- backend seed: change demo org from PRO to INTERNAL
- select-skin-pack: disable premium ACL enforcement, log notice instead

ECONOMY.md, after:

# 💎 BOOMFLOW — Recognition Economy

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/🔒_Exclusive_Use-Sistemas_Ursol-8B5CF6.svg" alt="Exclusive"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-1.0-gold.svg" alt="Version"/>
</p>

> **"At Ursol, value is not only generated through commits — it is generated through connections and mutual support. These badges represent an investment in our community."**

---

## 📖 Table of Contents

1. [System Philosophy](#system-philosophy)
2. [Bond Badges (Peer-to-Peer)](#-bond-badges-peer-to-peer)
3. [Investment Badges (Future Concept)](#-investment-badges-future-concept)
4. [Benefits by Category](#benefits-by-category)
5. [Integrity of Merit Badges](#-integrity-of-merit-badges)
6. [Technical Implementation](#technical-implementation)

---

## System Philosophy

BOOMFLOW recognizes that talent goes beyond code. An exceptional team is built on **three pillars**:

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                     DIMENSIONS OF VALUE                         │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                                 │
│   ⚙️ TECHNICAL         ❤️ SOCIAL            💎 COMMITMENT       │
│   ──────────          ────────             ───────────          │
│   • Code              • Bonds              • Investment         │
│   • DevOps            • Mentorship         • Sponsorship        │
│   • Architecture      • Culture            • Sustainability     │
│                                                                 │
│   Technical           Human                Community            │
│   merit badges        connection badges    support badges       │
│                                                                 │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## ❤️ Bond Badges (Peer-to-Peer)

### The Concept: "Resonance"

In corporate environments, we prefer to call them **Resonance** or **Bond** badges. These are not badges you "earn" through metrics — they are badges you **transfer** to a colleague.

### Mechanics

```yaml
# Resonance System Rules
allocation:
  badges_per_user_per_year: 2
  type: "camaraderie"
  transferable: true
  
restrictions:
  - no_self_award: true
  - no_reciprocal_immediate: true  # Cannot award someone who awarded you within 30 days
  - requires_message: true          # Must include a reason
```

### Why Does It Work?

| Aspect | Automatic Badge | Bond Badge |
|--------|----------------|------------|
| Origin | Algorithm | Colleague |
| Value | Objective | Emotional |
| Message | "You completed X commits" | "Thanks for sticking with me during Friday's deployment" |
| Impact | Recognition | Human connection |

### Available Badges

| Badge | Description | Trigger |
|-------|-------------|---------|
| 🤝 **Resonance** | A colleague recognizes you for your support | `MANUAL_PEER_AWARD` |
| 💫 **Strong Bond** | Received 3+ Resonance badges | Automatic |
| 🌟 **Team Soul** | Received 10+ Resonance badges | Automatic |

---

## 💎 Investment Badges (Future Concept)

> **⚠️ STATUS: NOT ACTIVE — These badges are not currently implemented.**
>
> The following is an exploratory concept for how community investment could be recognized in Boomflow. It is not available and has no timeline for implementation. We are keeping this section as a reference for future design discussions.
>
> **Key concern:** Any badge that can be obtained through payment risks undermining the credibility of the entire badge system. If a "Patron Bloom" badge sits next to a "Code Ninja" badge, and one was earned through months of work while the other was earned through a $50 donation, the system’s integrity is damaged. Solving this cleanly is a hard design problem.

### The Concept: Tangible Commitment

When a member invests (even symbolically) in the BOOMFLOW ecosystem, they are making a **public commitment** to the Ursol community.

### Meaningful Benefits

```yaml
# Investment Tier Benefits
patron_tiers:
  - tier: "seed"        # $1-5
    benefits:
      - badge: "patron-seed"
      - recognition_wall: true
      
  - tier: "growth"      # $10-20
    benefits:
      - badge: "patron-growth" 
      - time_off: "1 free afternoon per month"
      - course_access: "1 Udemy/Coursera course"
      
  - tier: "bloom"       # $50+
    benefits:
      - badge: "patron-bloom"
      - project_choice: "Priority in stack selection"
      - impact_certificate: "Donation to a social cause"
```

### Social Impact (Optional)

The funds raised can be allocated to:

| Destination | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| 🌳 **Reforestation** | Plant trees with the fund |
| 💻 **Education** | Sponsor programming students |
| 🏠 **Community** | Support open source projects |

The badge becomes a **receipt** that "Ursol and I helped."

### Available Badges

| Badge | Investment | Main Benefit |
|-------|-----------|--------------|
| 🌱 **Patron Seed** | $1-5 | Public recognition |
| 🌿 **Patron Growth** | $10-20 | Disconnect time |
| 🌸 **Patron Bloom** | $50+ | Project choice |
| 🌳 **Eco Champion** | Social donation | Impact certificate |

---

## Benefits by Category

### Benefits Matrix

| Category | Badge Type | Tangible Benefit |
|----------|-----------|-----------------|
| 🔵 Coding | Technical merit | Professional recognition |
| 🟣 DevOps | Technical merit | Professional recognition |
| ❤️ Community | Social bond | Human connection |
| 💎 Premium | Investment (future) | Community support |

### Disconnect Time

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                  🎫 DISCONNECT PASS                              │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                                 │
│   This pass grants 1 day off (24 hours) per month              │
│                                                                 │
│   Valid for: Growth and Bloom Patrons                          │
│   Usage: Any Friday of the month                               │
│   Requirement: 48-hour advance notice                          │
│                                                                 │
│   "Rest is part of productivity."                              │
│                                                                 │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## ⚠️ Integrity of Merit Badges

### The Risk

The main danger of monetizing badges is that **technical merit** badges may be perceived as less valuable than "purchased" ones.

### Solution: Visual and Semantic Separation

```yaml
badge_visual_distinction:
  merit_badges:         # Coding, DevOps, Leadership
    border: "standard"
    category_label: "MERIT"
    
  community_badges:     # Bond, Resonance
    border: "heart_shape"
    category_label: "SOCIAL"
    
  patron_badges:        # Investment
    border: "diamond_sparkle"
    category_label: "PATRON"
    color_scheme: "purple_gradient"
```

### Design Principles

1. **Differentiated Aesthetics**: Investment badges have a special frame (diamond-like shiny border)
2. **Visible Category**: "PATRON" or "SOCIAL" is always shown to distinguish them from technical merit
3. **Non-Competing**: Investment badges **never** appear in the technical skills leaderboard
4. **Full Transparency**: The profile clearly shows the origin of each badge

### What Money Can NOT Buy

| ❌ Never Purchasable | ✅ Obtainable through Investment |
|---------------------|--------------------------------|
| Code Ninja | Patron Seed |
| Bug Slayer | Patron Growth |
| Algorithm Ace | Patron Bloom |
| Tech Lead | Eco Champion |
| Any merit badge | Premium category badges |

---

## Technical Implementation

### New Categories in the Schema

```prisma
enum BadgeCategory {
  // ... existing categories
  COMMUNITY    // ❤️ Social/bond badges
  PREMIUM      // 💎 Investment/patron badges
}
```

### New Triggers

```prisma
enum TriggerType {
  // ... existing triggers
  MANUAL_PEER_AWARD    // Awarded by a colleague (Resonance)
  INVESTMENT           // Awarded through investment/donation
}
```

### API Endpoints

```http
# Award a Resonance badge to a colleague
POST /api/badges/peer-award
{
  "toUserId": "user123",
  "message": "Thanks for your support during the sprint"
}

# Process investment and award a Patron badge
POST /api/badges/patron
{
  "tier": "growth",
  "paymentId": "stripe_123",
  "impactChoice": "reforestation"  // optional
}
```

### Validations

```typescript
// peer-award: maximum 2 per year per user
const peerAwardsThisYear = await getPeerAwardsCount(fromUserId, currentYear)
if (peerAwardsThisYear >= 2) {
  throw new Error('You have used all your Resonance badges for this year')
}

// No self-awarding
if (fromUserId === toUserId) {
  throw new Error('You cannot award a badge to yourself')
}
```

---

## 📊 Category Summary

| Category | Emoji | Type | Origin |
|----------|-------|------|--------|
| 🟢 Onboarding | 🟢 | Merit | Automatic |
| 🔵 Coding | 🔵 | Merit | Automatic/Manual |
| 🟣 DevOps | 🟣 | Merit | Automatic/Manual |
| 🩷 Collaboration | 🩷 | Merit | Manual |
| 🟡 Leadership | 🟡 | Merit | Manual |
| 📚 Documentation | 📚 | Merit | Manual |
| 🌱 Growth | 🌱 | Merit | Manual |
| ❤️ Milestones | ❤️ | Cumulative | Automatic |
| ⭐ Special | ⭐ | Special | Automatic |
| ❤️ **Community** | ❤️ | **Social** | **Peer-to-Peer** |
| 💎 **Premium** | 💎 | **Investment (future)** | **Donation** |

---

<p align="center">
  <strong>🌸 BOOMFLOW Economy — Multidimensional Value</strong><br/>
  <sub>Technical merit is only one dimension of talent — Sistemas Ursol</sub>
</p>
